Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going to
explain a Japanese post-apocalyptic action film
called “Attack on Titan,” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
Over a hundred years ago, gigantic monstrous
humanoids called the Titans suddenly appeared
on the earth. They fed on any humans they could
get their hand on. Humans were not at the top
of the food chain anymore, and soon, their
population started to decrease. Even after
many civilizations were wiped out, mankind hadn’t
found a way to fight the Titans. So instead, they
settled on limiting their freedom to be safe. The
surviving humans built massive concentric walls,
taller than the Titans, around an area to prevent
invasion. Two circular walls were constructed,
one inside the other, to ensure double protection.
The outer space was called the outer district,
and the inner was called the inner district.
Inside those walls, they could live a peaceful
life. However, the walls didn’t guarantee
protection. And even after a hundred years,
people live in fear of the Titans.
The protagonist of the movie is a young man named
Eren Yeager, who lives in the outer district.
He dreams of going beyond the walls someday to
explore the world. He frequently boasts about the
seas and oceans of the outer world to his friends,
Armin and Mikasa. One day, they decide to go to
the border and try climbing the wall to jump to
the other side. When they reach closer to the
border, the group is shocked to see the size
of the wall. Armin and Mikasa are skeptical of
the idea claiming that the Titans can still be
outside. But Eren insists that it has been
a hundred years since anyone has seen them,
and with no humans to feed on, they have probably
died. Their conversation is cut short when the
border patrol comes to arrest the group for
being too close to the wall. Eren, infuriated
by the police trying to capture his friends,
starts fighting them, completely ignoring the
fact that he can be executed for the crime.
Just then, captain Souda approaches them and asks
the soldiers to back down. He promises to punish
the group personally and sends the soldiers away.
Souda understands Eren’s desire for freedom
but criticizes his actions as childish.
He then informs the group of a military approach
to explore beyond the walls. He explains that
the government has sent some soldiers outside
to inspect the situation so Eren doesn’t have
to put his life in danger. All of a sudden, a
loud explosion startles everyone. An earthquake
follows it, and the ground begins to shake. The
group retreats as the wall moves aggressively.
Then, a view of a massive Titan on the other side
is seen. He lets out a loud screech and begins
kicking the wall. The patrol officers watch in
fear, unable to do anything to stop the creature.
The Titan finally breaks the
wall and disappears into smoke.
Everything goes silent for a few seconds. Then,
the people see many such creatures enter the city.
The soldiers attack the monsters with cannonballs
which do them little to no harm. They seem to have
powerful regeneration properties as the wounds
caused by the cannons heal at a great speed.
Soon, the Titans reach the soldiers and start
devouring them one by one. A soldier even commits
suicide, claiming that it is better than dying at
the hands of the monsters. Everyone starts to run
for their lives as the Titans destroy houses and
grab as many people as they can. Armin gets lost
in the crowd while Eren and Mikasa run towards
the town church where people are going to hide.
Mikasa notices a little child on the ground
about to be stepped on by the running crowd.
She goes to save the child, but gets separated
from Eren in the process. Eren gets dragged
inside the church, but the people close its
entrance right after, not letting anyone else
get in. Eren watches his dearest friend from the
church’s window as she is approached by a female
Titan with terrifying teeth. Mikasa knows that
nothing can save her now, so she lowers her head,
accepting her fate. Just then, a loud explosion
sends everyone inside the church backward.
When Eren looks outside again, Mikasa and the
Titan are nowhere to be seen. He runs outside
looking for Mikasa, only to come across the ruins
of the city that once used to be his home. When
Eren turns around, he sees the monsters ripping
the church apart and devouring everyone inside. He
wanders into the destroyed city hopelessly.
Cut to two years later. All survivors from the
previous Titan attack have moved to the inner
district. The military is now planning to get
the outer district back. After the hoard of
refugees moving into the inner district and
abandonment of the fertile farmland of the outer
one, the scarcity of food started killing people.
If this continues, everyone will eventually die
of starvation. Their only option for survival
is to take over the outer district and repair the
broken wall. The director of the military forces
is named Kubal. He gives the soldiers a heartfelt
speech and calls a girl named Hans on the stage.
She is the head of the weapon of the troop. Hans
demonstrates a new omnidirectional mobility gear
that she claims will help them fight the Titans.
But she attacks her own people by accident.
Then, we see Eren and Armin in the military
crowd. It turns out that both of them survived
the attack two years ago and now have joined
the military. Eren wants to avenge the Titans
for killing the woman he loved, Mikasa. Captain
Souda also survived the attack but has lost his
will to live. He is now a food distributor in
the army and an alcoholic. The soldiers plan to
invade the outer district at night when the Titans
will be asleep. They want to close the way that
the Titan invaded the city from, so no new Titans
can enter. Then, they can kill the remaining ones
and get their district back. Hans asks everyone
to move forward slowly and not make any noise
as the monsters are sensitive to sounds.
The entrance to the outside district opens,
and the army drives out in military vans. As they
move forward, the captain abruptly orders them
to stop the vehicles, sensing a movement forward.
The soldiers slowly look around only to find cows
roaming in the city. One of them, named Hiana,
hears a baby crying and decides to investigate it,
putting her life in danger. Eren follows the girl,
and the two end up inside a destroyed building.
The cry becomes clearer as they go further
in. Suddenly a slimy liquid falls onto Hiana.
The two look up and are terrified to see
a massive baby Titan eating a human.
The baby falls in front of the two and starts to
cry. They run away outside in fear. The soldiers
start to panic because of the noise, but the
captain orders them to keep quiet and not
attract any Titans. Suddenly, a massive hand
emerges out of nowhere and grabs the captain.
The Titans have awoken, now the soldiers are in
great danger. Eren and Hiana run towards the group
as a massive monster follows them. They start
running back to the vehicles, but commander Kubal
senses the danger and runs away with the vehicle
and the weapons. Hans from inside the vehicle
asks the group to come to an abandoned building
nearby. The soldiers run towards the building
but are surrounded by the Titans before they can
escape. They lose all hope when all of a sudden,
a Titan killer and captain of the Scout Regiment,
Shikishima, appears. He uses a swinging device
to kill the Titans mid-air by striking the weak
zone behind their neck. Shikishima has a female
partner as skilled as him. The killed Titans
fall to the ground and evaporate. Eren finally
gets a glimpse of Shikishima’s friend and is
beyond surprised to see that she is Mikasa.
Mikasa, however, pays no attention to her old
friend and looks at Shikishima smiling at her.
The two then go to the building, followed by the
soldiers. It turns out that commander Kubal has
appointed Shikishima to help him with the mission.
Shikishima saved Mikasa’s life that day and even
taught her how to fight the Titans. Since then,
they have been working as partners living in a
world of Titans. Mikasa has learned the harsh
reality of life and doesn’t want to associate
with people from her old life anymore. Later,
one of the soldiers blames Eren for attracting
the Titans earlier and putting everyone’s life
in danger. The two get into a fight but are
soon stopped by Mikasa. Shikishima asks Eren his
name and showcases his superiority by bringing
Eren to have a chat with him in private.
Eren tells Shikishima that he wants to learn
to kill the Titans and blames the monsters for
trapping them. Shikishima laughs at him, claiming
that humans trapped themselves in, not the
Titans. They were too scared to fight, and their
cowardness brought them where they are. He then
provokes Eren by calling him a coward. When Eren
denies being one, Shikishima asks him to let go
of his fears and fight the Titans for his freedom.
Eren then goes looking for Mikasa and finds her
playing a broken piano. He tries reuniting with
her, but Mikasa seems nonchalant to his efforts.
She says that she turned into a different person
when the baby she was looking after died.
Mikasa then reveals a bite mark on her body,
showing what the Titan attack had done to
her. They are interrupted by Shikishima,
who feeds Mikasa an apple with his hand, showing
his affection towards her. A heartbroken Eren runs
outside and screams in agony. His only love,
for whom he wanted to avenge the Titans, is
no longer the person she used to be.
Just then, Hiana approaches Eren and comforts
him. The two return inside the building and are
talking as another couple beside them makes out.
Hiana gets emotional telling Eren about her
daughter, who is back in the inner district.
She then tries to seduce Eren and forces herself
on him. But they are interrupted when a giant eye
stares at them through a window. It
suddenly drags Hiana with his mouth,
not giving them much time to think. Eren watches
as his friend is eaten by the monster. Many
other Titans approach the building. Shikishima,
Mikasa, and other soldiers put on their gears and
fight the Titans. Shikishima kills most of them
along with Mikasa, but many others are injured
because this is their first time fighting. The
explosives are the only asset that will help
them get rid of the Titans in the long run, so
commander Kubal asks everyone to protect them.
Meanwhile, the couple who were making out earlier
are attacked, and the man dies in the encounter.
The woman is devastated by her lover’s death and
vows to avenge the creature who killed him.
Then, we see a person getting into the vehicle
with the explosive and driving away. The woman
who had just lost her lover plans to sacrifice
herself and jumps on the vehicle to light the
explosives. She takes over the steering wheel and
drives towards the Titan who killed her lover.
As she crashes onto the Titan, the explosion
blows up his legs. However, the attack doesn’t
work because the Titan’s legs grow back quickly.
The only way to kill them is to strike on their
weak spot. Eren is still on the top of the
building and hasn’t helped others defeat
the Titans yet. He remembers Shikishima’s words
from earlier and uses the springs to attack them.
He struggles at first but manages to make his
first kill with a little guidance from Shikishima.
However, he loses his balance right after and
flies directly into another Titan’s mouth.
The Titan bits off one of his legs, but Eren
manages to save himself by jumping onto the
rooftop. Suddenly, a Titan gets hold of Armin as
he is trying to run away. The others try to save
him as the Titan is about to eat the guy. Eren
whimpers in pain but doesn’t stop trying to help
his friend. He drags himself towards the edge of
the building and leaps into the monster’s mouth,
holding it open. Armin is about to slide
into the monster’s throat but is saved.
However, Eren drops into the Titan’s stomach in
the process. There he lies in between several dead
bodies, one of them being Hiana. Meanwhile, Mikasa
and the others are on a rooftop where Armin tells
her about Eren’s death. Mikasa fails to hide
her emotions and is visibly sad to have heard
the news. Furious, she launches at the Titans
and kills every single one of them. However,
her fuel runs out midway, making her fall to the
ground. The Titan who ate Eren earlier approaches
Mikasa and is ready to kill her. But suddenly,
a hand emerges out of the creature’s mouth.
Soon, his body blows up, revealing another
Titan inside him. The newly formed Titan
fights his own kind and kills them one by one.
The surviving soldiers watch in awe as they
realize the new Titan is actually Eren.
After killing everyone, the Titan approaches
the building aggressively. Eren seems to have
forgotten who he is and is killing everyone in
sight. The soldiers retreat in fear except
for Mikasa, who calls Eren’s name. However,
he doesn’t stop and grabs her. While looking at
her, he slowly gains his memory back and begins to
recognize Mikasa. He then falls dead to the ground
and starts to evaporate like the other Titans.
Mikasa slices his weak spot open, and the human
Eren emerges from the creature. To everyone’s
surprise, he has grown his leg back with the
help of the creature’s regeneration powers.
The last Titan finally evaporates, and
Eren slowly gains consciousness.